README.md, before:

# Rails DB

Please share this gem with your friends to get more feedback. If you have ideas - please create an issue.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/rails_db.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/rails_db)

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/home.png?token=AAArXeu9-vtuW8nIvc9RE0nOIhGbwxkbks5WKlTLwA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

Quick way to inspect your Rails database **http://localhost:3000/rails/db**, see content of tables, export them to CSV, EXPLAIN SQL and run SQL queries.

Demo available on: https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/

Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZBY9YPQdbx8

## Requirements

For now was tested only with Ruby 2.2 and Rails 4.2. But expected to work with older versions too.

## Main Features

* view content of DB tables
* sort content of DB tables
* execute SQL queries
* autocomplete for SQL queries
* filter tables for easier navigation
* use history of you SQL queries
* see EXPLAIN results for your queries
* export data to CSV
* import SQL files
* expand/collapse sidebar
* added HTTP_BASIC auth for Rails DB
* ability to turn on/off using initializer
* white/black list of tables
* data-tables inside your app
* ajax-ify Rails DB
* visualize SQL schema (future)
* CRUD for table records (future)

## Install

Add this to the development group in your `Gemfile`

For all environments (be careful with production environment):

```ruby
  gem 'rails_db'
```

Or only for development:

```ruby
  group :development do
    gem 'rails_db'
  end
```

Run `bundle install`

Visit **`http://localhost:3000/rails/db`** and you will see your database tables and SQL editors.

## Customization
If you want to customize gem run in console:

    rails g rails_db initializer

If will create file config/initializers/rails_db.rb.

### Options
*   **enabled** - enable of disable gem (default: true).
*   **automatic_routes_mount** - automatically mount engine routes in your app (default: true).
*   **http_basic_authentication_enabled** - Enable HTTP_BASIC authentication (default: false).
*   **http_basic_authentication_user_name** - HTTP_BASIC authentication user name.
*   **http_basic_authentication_password** - HTTP_BASIC authentication password.
*   **black_list_tables** - black list for tables (hide tables from sidebar).
*   **white_list_tables** - black list for tables (show only these tables in sidebar).

If you want to add routes manually you can add need to turn off automatic_routes_mount and then add to your `routes.rb`

    mount RailsDb::Engine => '/rails/db', :as => 'rails_db'

## Data Tables

You can easily embed data-tables into your App with content from DB.

You can build data tables for whole Table, Table with specific columns or based on SQL query.

Below you can see samples how you can embed data-tables in directly your app.

```erb
<h3>Table</h3>

<%= rails_db_data_table table: 'accounts',
                        footer: true,
                        columns: ['id', 'name', 'users_count'],
                        header: true,
                        style: :bootstrap %>

<h3>SQL</h3>

<%= rails_db_data_table_sql sql: 'select id, name, age from users order by age desc limit 10',
                            footer: false,
                            header: true %>
```

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/data_table_code.png?token=AAArXU_ChN3xNN2MajLy2Tv98ij6XK4Pks5WKlT3wA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

## Samples

### Schema

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/autocomplete.png?token=AAArXU_ChN3xNN2MajLy2Tv98ij6XK4Pks5WKlT3wA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)


[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/accounts_schema.png?token=AAArXU_ChN3xNN2MajLy2Tv98ij6XK4Pks5WKlT3wA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

### SQL Editor

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/execute_sql.png?token=AAArXf26vwsPwvV2MhgxWUepGb0tT6g4ks5WKlUJwA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

Install & visit **`http://localhost:3000/rails/db`** to see it in action.

## Contributing

- Fork it
- Create your feature branch (git checkout -b my-new-feature)
- Commit your changes (git commit -am 'Added some feature')
- Push to the branch (git push origin my-new-feature)
- Create new Pull Request

## Plans

* add specs
* verify all environments
* add DB schema visualization

## License

This project uses MIT-LICENSE.

Commit message:

Added verification access for current_user

README.md, after:

# Rails DB

Please share this gem with your friends to get more feedback. If you have ideas - please create an issue.

[![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db.svg)](https://travis-ci.org/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db)
[![Gem Version](https://badge.fury.io/rb/rails_db.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/rb/rails_db)

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/home.png?token=AAArXeu9-vtuW8nIvc9RE0nOIhGbwxkbks5WKlTLwA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

Quick way to inspect your Rails database **http://localhost:3000/rails/db**, see content of tables, export them to CSV, EXPLAIN SQL and run SQL queries.

Demo available on: https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/

Video Demo: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ZBY9YPQdbx8

## Requirements

For now was tested manually only with Ruby 2.X, and Rails 4.X. But expected to work with older versions too. Also there are automated tests running on Travis CI.

## Main Features

* view content of DB tables
* sort content of DB tables
* execute SQL queries
* autocomplete for SQL queries
* filter tables for easier navigation
* use history of you SQL queries
* see EXPLAIN results for your queries
* export data to CSV
* import SQL files
* expand/collapse sidebar
* added HTTP_BASIC auth for Rails DB
* ability to turn on/off using initializer
* white/black list of tables
* data-tables inside your app
* ajax-ify Rails DB
* visualize SQL schema (future)
* CRUD for table records (future)

## Install

Add this to the development group in your `Gemfile`

For all environments (be careful with production environment):

```ruby
  gem 'rails_db'
```

Or only for development:

```ruby
  group :development do
    gem 'rails_db'
  end
```

Run `bundle install`

Visit **`http://localhost:3000/rails/db`** and you will see your database tables and SQL editors.

## Customization

If you want to customize gem(create initializer) run in console:

    rails g rails_db initializer

If will create file config/initializers/rails_db.rb.

### Options
*   **enabled** - enable of disable gem (default: true).
*   **automatic_routes_mount** - automatically mount engine routes in your app (default: true).
*   **http_basic_authentication_enabled** - Enable HTTP_BASIC authentication (default: false).
*   **http_basic_authentication_user_name** - HTTP_BASIC authentication user name.
*   **http_basic_authentication_password** - HTTP_BASIC authentication password.
*   **black_list_tables** - black list for tables (hide tables from sidebar).
*   **white_list_tables** - black list for tables (show only these tables in sidebar).
*   **verify_access_proc** - allow access by specific conditions, for example by role for current_user (default: `proc { true }`)

If you want to add routes manually you can add need to turn off automatic_routes_mount and then add to your `routes.rb`

```ruby
  mount RailsDb::Engine => '/rails/db', :as => 'rails_db'
```

If you want to allow access to admin panel for admins and you using for example Devise you can do following (in your `config/initializers/rails_db.rb`)

```ruby
  config.verify_access_proc = proc { current_user.admin? }
```

## Data Tables

You can easily embed data-tables into your App with content from DB.

You can build data tables for whole Table, Table with specific columns or based on SQL query.

Below you can see samples how you can embed data-tables in directly your app.

```erb
<h3>Table</h3>

<%= rails_db_data_table table: 'accounts',
                        footer: true,
                        columns: ['id', 'name', 'users_count'],
                        header: true,
                        style: :bootstrap %>

<h3>SQL</h3>

<%= rails_db_data_table_sql sql: 'select id, name, age from users order by age desc limit 10',
                            footer: false,
                            header: true %>
```

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/data_table_code.png?token=AAArXU_ChN3xNN2MajLy2Tv98ij6XK4Pks5WKlT3wA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

## Samples

### Schema

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/autocomplete.png?token=AAArXU_ChN3xNN2MajLy2Tv98ij6XK4Pks5WKlT3wA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)


[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/accounts_schema.png?token=AAArXU_ChN3xNN2MajLy2Tv98ij6XK4Pks5WKlT3wA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

### SQL Editor

[<img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/master/docs/execute_sql.png?token=AAArXf26vwsPwvV2MhgxWUepGb0tT6g4ks5WKlUJwA%3D%3D"
/>](https://rails-db.herokuapp.com/rails/db/)

Install & visit **`http://localhost:3000/rails/db`** to see it in action.

## Contributing

- Fork it
- Create your feature branch (git checkout -b my-new-feature)
- Commit your changes (git commit -am 'Added some feature')
- Push to the branch (git push origin my-new-feature)
- Create new Pull Request

## Local Development

- Checkout it
- cd test/dummy
- bundle
- rake db:migrate
- rails s
- open http://locahost:3000/

## Common Issues

- "Invalid css error" - https://github.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/issues/11
- "Automatic routes mounting" - https://github.com/igorkasyanchuk/rails_db/issues/4

## Plans

* Add more tests
* Verify all environments
* Add DB schema visualization

## License

This project uses MIT-LICENSE.
